Working Title of Proposed Project
Sidewalk Voices

Project Type
Artistic Focus

Which discipline best describes this project?
Social Practice

1. Project Summary
Futel will install one new public installation which will showcase a new interactive audio program.

The installation will consist of a salvaged payphone and payphone enclosure on the wall of Open Signal, accessible from the sidewalk on Martin Luther King Boulevard by anyone, at all hours. Existing public payphones already installed and maintained by Futel in Portland neighborhoods will also participate.

The audio program will consist of three projects, each produced by a local artist affiliated with Open Signal or partner nonprofits. These projects will be centered about topics vital to the neighborhoods where this and other Futel phones are located, such as community identity and gentrification.

Each project will consist of a spoken word introduction and prompts for the user to contribute. Contributions will be curated and gathered into an audio program, which will then be accessible from the phones and elicit further comments from the producers and other public contributors.

Futel and Open Signal will provide operational, development, and creative support to allow contributors to effectively use the medium of our installations.

Content developed for this project will also be distributed through other media, including Futel's website, publications, and existing public installations. 

2. What is your proposed public presentation?
This project will focus on one public kiosk housing a payphone, with signage and text revealing its use. The kiosk will be accessible to the public at all hours for the duration of the project.

Additional, existing kiosks will also be available for public interaction with the project.

Finally, a temporary kiosk will be featured at the Open Signal Media Summit on August 10, hosted within and around the Open Signal building.

3. What is the proposed venue location(s) for your public presentation?
Open Signal, 2766 NE Martin Luther King Jr Blvd
Open Signal is a community-driven media arts center.
The installation will be on the exterior wall of the Open Signal building, accessible from the sidewalk.

4. Who are the key artists, collaborators, and/or community partners?
Open Signal will host the installation, facilitate community contributions and support, and provide production assistance.

Three artists associated with Open Signal will curate and produce the three projects. Potential artists include Jefferson Kincaid, Marcos Alatorre, Justice, and Daniela del Mar.

Open Signal is a media arts center in Portland, Oregon building upon the 35-year legacy of Portland Community Media. Open Signal carries a new vision for community-driven media focused on creativity, technology and social change.

Start Date of your Project:
07/01/2019

End Date of your Project:
12/31/2020

5. Please describe the overall proposed timeline for your project between these two dates, including the expected timeline for development, execution, and final presentations.
08/2019:
Content, production details identified. Technical support implemented.
09/2019:
Public kiosk installed with basic functionality.
10/2019:
Key contributors and facilitators confirmed.
03/2020:
First iteration of content available.
06/2020:
Second iteration of content available.
09/2020:
Third iteration of content available.
12/2020:
Public kiosk remains installed through this date.

6. What is the estimated total audience for your proposed public presentation?
1000 users of the public kiosk
300 attendees of the Open Signal Media Summit

7. What is the total projected budget for the project?

XXX TBD

8. What amount of funding would you like to request from RACC?

XXX TBD, probaby the max

What is the intended impact of this project?
The project's greatest impact will be in presenting a radically accessible artistic and communication tool to the public, which will strengthen neighborhood involvement by amplifying community voices.

Additionally, this project will benefit Futel by providing a focused artistic project to be facilitated by a public Futel phone. It will also benefit Open Signal by providing a media project for people to interact with immediately within the neighborhood of its building.

How do you plan to ensure the quality of your project?

XXX TBD

Who is the audience for the public presentation and what is your promotion/marketing plan?

The audience for the public payphone will be anybody who happens to walk by on that sidewalk, or who has been drawn to it by our promotional materials. There will be also be a temporary phone experienced by attendees of the Open Signal Media Summit.

XXX promotion/marketing plan TBD

What additional information would you like to provide to make the case for your Project Grant proposal?

Futel phones are tools like microphones and video cameras. They don’t have a single, predetermined function. They are the infrastructure for interaction and communication. Futel has a proven track record of using these tools to provide radically accessible public artistic experiences, as Open Signal has by promoting modern multimedia publishing. This partnership, and this grant supporting it, will give us another opportunity to use these tools in the support of people and communities.
