What category best describes your proposed opportunity?

Learn

What funding level are you applying for?

    $1,500

Which discipline best describes your work?

Social Practice

What is the proposed Start Date of your grant activity?

October 1 2021

What is the proposed End Date of your grant activity?

June 30 2022

1. Describe your project, activity, or opportunity. Include who or what is involved, when and where it will take place, timeline, and any other information including scope or details that you feel is appropriate.

Up to 1,000 characters including spaces.

Futel is a public interactive installation combining participatory art and communication services, linking locations to communities and history. Our installations have been live since 2014, with ten sites in Portland and tens of thousands of interactions in 2020.

This project will expand the artistic reach of Futel by developing mobile installations that use solar power and cellular internet. Futel's current installations are permanent. Mobile and temporary installations will diversify our audience and community of participants.

Learning and prototyping will take place in the last quarter of 2021. Testing and deployment will take place in the first half of 2022. Deployment will be at an event or site hosted by a Futel partner. Previous examples of Futel installations at events include Open Signal Fest, the Village Building Convergence, and the Teardown Conference.


2. Who are the key artists, collaborators, community partners, or service providers? What are their roles and why did you select them?

For individual artists with solo proposals, use the space to describe the connection to your own practice as the key artist. Up to 1,000 characters including spaces.

The key artist is Karl Anderson, who directs artistic focus, operations, and engineering. We are supported by 15 volunteers with various artistic and operational roles, and nine volunteer facilitators providing live interaction with installation users. Current artistic collaborators with work showcased on Futel installations include Machado Mijiga, Sailor Winkelman, and Emily Fitzgerald. Several other participants, many anonymous, have made contributions with our installations.

A collaborator is Sisters Of The Road, providing siting and community engagement help. Another is the pseudonymous Father Charge, who has installed guerrilla temporary solar charging installations for public use, chosen because of his experience and interest in continuing with this work.

3. How would you use the RACC grant funds to transition or move forward at this time?

Up to 1,000 characters including spaces.

We will design and prototype a Futel installation which utilizes solar power, batteries, and cellular internet connectivity. The installation will be suitable for a semi-permanent or temporary deployment in a location with minimal security or monitoring, such as a gathering or area with visibility.

The project will increase our knowledge and experience, and will produce one or more demonstration installations. These will be deployable when completed, and will also be used as templates for future installations.

The flexibility of these installations will allow us to increase our visibility, audience, and collaboration opportunities.

4. What is the intended impact of this project, activity, or opportunity on an audience and/or the community?

Up to 1,000 characters including spaces.

We will expand of our audience and ability to interact with community members. The public and accessible nature of our installations already allows us to reach a large and diverse audience, many of whom are not typically served by artistic or communication projects. Semi-permanent and mobile installations will bring us to new locations, and will allow us to more rapidly deploy to facilitate events.

As examples, a history kiosk could describe a location threatened by economic issues or the planned loss of a community resource. A two-way communication installation could allow interested people to learn and share stories at gatherings. And our live operators could assist and guide people with interests related to an event or neighborhood.

These facilities would continue to follow our main themes of radically accessible art, simple interfaces, and the use of basic communication services and artistic expression as symbiotic services, but would let us do so in new ways.
