https://pdxart.portofportland.online/call-to-artists/


Exhibit Requirements:

    Work chosen for exhibitions at PDX must be conceived with sensitive regard to the community and must be appropriate for a public setting serving a diverse all-ages audience.
    Exhibited work must be of an excellent aesthetic standard and craft, demonstrating mastery of materials and techniques. Artists chosen for exhibitions are representatives of the regional arts community, producing innovative concepts for public consideration.
    Exhibitions must be physically suited to the space, allowing uninterrupted traffic flow in the terminal, hallways, and other pedestrian areas.
    Exhibitors must be willing to sign the exhibitor’s agreement, hold harmless agreements, and provide insurance as required.
    All artists selected to have their artwork featured in the PDX Rotating Art Program will be provided an honorarium that will be determined by the scope, location, and duration of the approved exhibition at PDX.

Rotating Exhibition Opportunities: Within Portland International Airport, there are currently five (5) designated exhibition areas featuring artwork by professional regional artists (living and working in Oregon and Washington State).

The exhibition areas rotate biannually and are located within the terminal post-security within Concourse B,  Concourse B/C Connector, Concourse D, and the Concourse E Extension of PDX, as well as one pre-security exhibition area within the PACR Rental Car Lobby.

Artists are invited to submit digital images of their existing work via email for consideration.

To apply* Please email the following information addressed to the Port of Portland Art Program Manager Wendy Given: wendy.given@portofportland.com

– Five (5) digital images of existing artwork; 1200 pixels on the longest side (72 dpi, sRGB)
– Project/work statement in the body of your email
– Artist bio in the body of your email
– Website link (if applicable)


project statement

    Define the boundaries of the project.
    Define the business need and the expected outcome of the project.
    Identify constraints that limit a project team’s options for developing a solution. 
    List assumptions regarding decisions outside the project team’s control.
    Identify business processes impacted by the project.
    Identify internal and external entities with which the project team will interface.

1. Overview — providing a synopsis
2. Governance — attributing responsibility
3. Approach — outlining steps
4. Assumptions — expected risks and rewards
5. Deliverables — defining success

1. Understand why the project was initiated.
2. Define the key objectives of the project.
3. Outline the project statement of work.
4. Identify major deliverables.
5. Select key milestones.
6. Identify major constraints.
7. List scope exclusions.
8. Obtain sign-off.
