To whom it may concern,

I am writing to request the donation of internet services to provide free telephone service to houseless residents of four small house and transitional housing sites managed by Village Coalition.

Futel is a non-profit 501C3 organization committed to installing free internet-based telephones and telephone booths in the Portland area.  Our phones are specially programmed to give the user a menu of options, including basic telephone service, commonly used numbers and interactive creative features.  Grants from the Regional Arts and Culture Council and the Portland Institute of Contemporary Art have allowed us to develop our current network of four phones, including a phone at Right2Dream Too.

Futel is working with Personal Telco Project and Village Coalition of Portland to develop an expansion of our network, focused on the populations living in Kenton Village, Hazelnut Grove, Right2Dream Too and Dignity Village.  Village Coalition has proven to be a successful example of self-organized houseless services, a safe haven and jumping-off point for those struggling with homelessness. We are currently applying for a Metro Placemaking Grant that would support the installation and maintenance of two phones at each of the four sites for one year.  One would be centrally located and used primarily for crisis interventions and distribution of services.  The other would be placed just outside the entrance and would be accessible to the public as well as residents.

In addition to these services, Futel will be working with these communities to develop audio content, helping to support outreach and community development. 

The locations we wish to service with this project are:

Kenton Women’s Village, 2221 N Argyle
Dignity Village, 9563-9611 NE Sunderland Ave
Right 2 Dream Too, 900 N Thunderbird Way
Hazelnut Grove, N Greeley and N Interstate

Any donation of internet service to these locations would help Futel, Personal Telco Projecdt, and Village Coalition support this mission.

In this era of almost universal cell phone ownership, it’s easy to forget that some of our most vulnerable community members struggle to afford phone service.  Having access to a telephone can make a huge difference for someone applying for a job, attempting to access public services to trying to reach a family member.  Your donation will make this possible.

All donations are tax-deductible.
