        Have you read the Creative Heights program guidelines and FAQ’s to assess whether your project is eligible or potentially competitive?

        Please provide a working title for your project

Word On The Street(Art)

        Please provide a one-sentence summary of your project

Our art installation organization, Futel, will install an interactive installation accessible from the sidewalk on NE Russell Street, Portland, with a duration of no less than two years.

        Artistic Discipline

Social Practice/Participatory Art

        Is the vision for your project primarily driven by an arts and culture nonprofit; or an independent artist, culture bearer, curator, producer or collective? (check one)

Independent artist, culture bearer or collective

        Name of Lead Artist (e.g. artist, curator, producer, creative, culture bearer, collective/group) *
        Email of Lead Artist

        Phone number of Lead Artist *

        Lead Artist Region of Residence *

        Do you have a Lead Nonprofit partner identified? *

Yes, and the partnership is confirmed

If a Lead Nonprofit has been identified, please provide their name below

PDX Hackerspace

        If a Lead Nonprofit has been identified, please describe the relationship between the Lead Artist and the Lead Nonprofit.
600

PDX Hackerspace has been the fiscal sponsor for Futel for three years because their mission is aligned with ours, and the partnership benefits both of us through outreach. PDX Hackerspace hosts meetups, events, and workshops for people using technology in creative ways, and Futel collaborators have been introduced to the project through PDX Hackerspace.

        Who are you?
        Tell us about your background as an artist or organization and/or describe previous notable projects.
600        

Futel consists of five members as artists, engineers, and operations, and several other contributors. We install free public art installations, with 11 in Portland and three in other cities. We also publish a yearly publication and produce multimedia web content. Futel has been supported by grants since 2014. Previous collaborations have been with the Open Signal media arts center, the Village Coalition houseless advocacy network, and several artists.

Karl Anderson is the director of Futel. Since 1992, he has produced public space projects involving salvage, industrial re-use, and utility.

        What is your idea for a Creative Heights project?
1500

The project will occupy a payphone booth, customized with artwork. Picking up the handset will let the user hear a series of stories and advice from street artists. The user can extend the work by describing their own experiences, with selected contributions added to the discussion. The phone will also provide free calls and other telephony services.

Participants will learn what street art is, what Portland street art is, why it’s unique, and the value it adds to the streetscape and the community, and will be encouraged to leave a message illustrating their own experience with street art, what it means to them, and their questions. There will be an auditory rolodex listing a number of windows into the street art scene: “Dial 1 to hear street art stories by some of our local artists, dial 2 to leave your own story, dial 3 to listen to advice from local artists, dial 4 to leave advice, dial 5 to hear tips and tricks about how to make street art, dial 6 to leave tips and tricks". This will form a growing collection of resources to be shared via the Futel web site and other media outlets.

The visual art customizing the phone booth, and the initial audio content, will be created by Rx Skulls and Voxx Romana. Implementation and features will be provided by Karl Anderson. Installation will be provided by Leif Shackelford and Fletch Halyburton.

The installation will be accessible to the public from the sidewalk at all hours for two years or more.

        Who do you want to work with?

        Tell us about any proposed collaborators and their artistic/creative background, or how they'll support the project.
600

Rx Skulls is a Portland street artist specializing in screen printed media, stencils, painting, and installation methods to create fine art and street art. He has curated numerous community installations, murals, and art shows throughout Portland and beyond over the past 13 years. Voxx Romana is an internationally recognized Portland street artist with 16 years of experience. Rx and Voxx will implement the artistic aspects of the physical installation, provide content for the audio work showcased by the installation, and curate user contributions to the audio work.

        How is the proposed project different or distinct from previous work?

        We are looking for elements of experimentation and artistic or curatorial evolution that keep an artist’s/organization’s work vibrant or relevant and may provide an artist/organization with the potential for learning and/or meaningful growth. That creative stretch can take many forms beyond bold artistic ideas, including size/scope of project, new development processes, unique collaborations and more. Generally, projects that primarily stretch administrative practices, or do not generate from a creative impulse will not be competitive.
900

This project expands our work and grows our practice in several ways. First, it allows us to develop a new installation with a new artistic theme and focus. While we have deployed several public installations, with 11 currently in Portland, this will be the first with its own unique look and concept. Second, it lets us forge connections with Portland street artists. While our installations have always been instances of street art, we haven't emphasized that description, preferring instead to have a subtle, Situationist theme. With this collaboration, we will build on and emphasize the street art connection with our work, which we hope will lead to new creative directions. Finally, it is a new collaboration with artists we haven't worked with before, and we are looking forward to seeing what we come up with together.

        Select a preliminary grant request range

$10,000 - $24,000

        Letters of support

        Please upload letters of support from key collaborators confirming their commitment to the proposed project, or executive leadership at the lead nonprofit. This is not required for the LOI, but it can help the review committee understand the level of commitment or involvement from your proposed partners. Please limit the number of submitted letters to partners/collaborators who are essential to the project and combine them into one document before uploading.

