total budget

$14,160

abstract

Futel is an organization that uses salvaged telephone hardware to help neighborhood resiliency with communication services, tools, and interactive creative opportunities. We will expand the outreach of Futel by deploying four permanent public installations and three temporary portable installations.

budget data

budget.ods

Who is your organization and what is its mission?

Futel is a social service and arts organization salvaging and refurbishing payphones and telephony equipment to provide truly public communications services. Our phone installations provide free calls, services, live human interaction, community engagement, and interactive audio art, and most are available on the street 24 hours a day. We have been active for eight years, currently have 11 public phones, and provided over 10,000 free calls in 2021. We also provide free phone service to Village Coalition and Hygiene Center sites in Portland.

Why do you want to do this project?

Futel’s services improve with every new network node. The community engagement and audio art projects accessible from our payphones grow as our reach expands. With this project, we will expand our footprint by adding four new public installations and creating three portable installations for events or other temporary sites. This will enable us to bring our services and outreach to new communities.

We will maintain our existing 11 public installations, and we will improve our server software and processes to enable robust service.

These installations will continue to provide calls, services, and other interactive features. Two new installations will also support the future development of Sidewalk Voices, an interactive creative project to be run by the community centers where they are hosted.

The goals of this project are to expand our reach and solidify our public service model and infrastructure. Our robust technology and accessible interfaces support community resilience, and our infrastructure has been openly documented from the beginning. After 8 years, Futel has a tested, proven model that we want to share more widely.

What is your project plan?

The project will span one year, from July 2022 to July 2023, and will involve tasks and roles which members of our organization are familiar with from their work with our existing installations.

Q3 2022 - Q2 2023:
Maintain and improve existing server software and processes to enable robust service.

Q3 2022:
Purchase and refurbish payphone and installation hardware.
Assemble kiosks and hardware for four permanent installations.

Q4 2022:
Assemble kiosks and hardware for three portable/semi-permanent installations.
Deploy public installations at two locations: Hedron Hackerspace in SE Portland, and Microcosm Publishing in NE Portland, next to a bus stop on Williams Ave.
Deploy public installations at two additional locations. Candidates include Sisters Of The Road in SW Portland and Social Justice Action Center in SE Portland, both community centers providing services and support to the houseless community.

Q1-2 2023:
The four new installations, 11 existing public installations, and other service locations will remain operational for the duration of the project and beyond.

How does your project align with ARDC's mission and granting goals?

Our installations arise from a grassroots network maintaining communication technology for the public good.  We use salvaged examples of what was once a common piece of public urban technology - the payphone - to not only provide essential services like phone calls and voicemail, but also give opportunities to join creative projects and interact with others, showing the power of simple voice communication.

Our work is radically accessible because we bring it to the people for free and have a long record of collaborating with self-organized houseless services organizations to increase telephone access. Because our installations are public and available at all hours, we reach audiences that many technological or creative projects cannot.


Who will carry out your project?

The project will be carried out by Futel organization members in paid and volunteer roles including:

Karl Anderson: project coordinator, software engineer, operations, installer
Jason Plumb: software engineer, operations, installer
Elijah St Clair: software engineer, installer
Mathew Lippincott: operations consultant
Russell Senior: operations consultant

Installation hosts will also provide assistance and services, and we will draw on our team of 10 regular volunteers for additional help.


How does your project fulfill ARDC's open access goal?

Our software is open source, publicly viewable, and linked to in our website. Open source repositories include:
https://github.com/futel/sbc
https://github.com/futel/audiofone
https://github.com/kra/futel-installation/
https://github.com/kra/futel-vpnbox
https://github.com/kra/futel-substation

Our operations processes, budgets, project development notes, proposals, and other and other project documents are publicly viewable and discussed in our website. We also publish a yearly print publication. Overall, we work to make available the reasons for our successful and unsuccessful projects over the years.


Supporting information (file upload/)(text field)
