draft

The Apology Line, by Allan Bridge (February 14, 1945 - August 5, 1995)

Allan Bridge ran the Apology Line from the mid-seventies through the mid-nineties. The Apology Line is one of several inspirational factors which led to the implementation of Futel.

The Apology Line was an audio art project which was essentially a telephone numer and an answering machine. After hearing an introduction, callers could leave a recorded apology for whatever they had done wrong. Callers could also hear a curated digest of best apologies, released weekly, and this would often turn into a discussion as callers left comments. Bridge lived in Manhattan and would put up flyers to publicize it.

I experienced it in the early nineties, after reading an article about it in a discarded magazine. This was during a period when I had access to free long-distance phone calls, and I called in to listen to every episode.

The Apology Line is inspiring because it was a simple implemenation that had a large community impact. It was built around the basic technology that was part of urban life - a phone line, an answering machine, and photocopied flyers with those little tear-off number tabs. The constraints of that interface made it accessible to millions of people. The reason behind it was basic as well, a human connection that all people need but isn't available to everybody. Paridoxically, it is the very distance and anonymity of the medium that allowed the contributors to make an intimate connection.

The goal of Futel is to fill a similar role in creative communication. The foundation of the project is a very simple one, to provide free telephone service to anyone, at any time. Fulfilling that reqirement gives us the form factor of the payphone, an armored machine anchored to a solid object which we can leave out on the street all night. Because the interface is the telephone, it is accessible to anybody with an ear, a mouth, and a finger. The natural habitat of our phones is the public, urban environment, not galleries or festivals. A Futel user does not need an account or even an identity, and if a user doesn't have a person to talk to, we can provide one.
