Working Title of Proposed Project *
Sidewalk Voices

Project Type *
Artistic Focus

Which discipline best describes this project? *
Social Practice

Project Summary
Futel will install one new public installation. This will use salvaged payphones and payphone enclosures and be accessible to anyone, at all hours.

The installation will showcase a new interactive audio program which will feature and amplify local community voices, as well as allow users of this installation and other public Futel phone locations to communicate about issues important to local presence and culture, both economic and cultural.

Futel and collaborators will provide operational, development, and creative support to allow contributors to effectively use the medium of our installations.

Content developed for this project will also be distributed through other media, including Futel's website, publications, and existing public installations. 

2. What is your proposed public presentation? *
This project will use one public kiosk housed within a payphone, with signage and text revealing its use. The kiosk will be accessible to the public at all hours for the duration of the project.

3. What is the proposed venue location(s) for your public presentation? * 
Open Signal, 2766 NE Martin Luther King Jr Blvd
Open Signal is a community-driven media arts center.

4. Who are the key artists, collaborators, and/or community partners? *

Open Signal will host the installation, facilitate community contributions and support, and provide production assistance.

Open Signal is a media arts center in Portland, Oregon building upon the 35-year legacy of Portland Community Media. Open Signal carries a new vision for community-driven media focused on creativity, technology and social change.

Start Date of your Project: *
07/01/2019

End Date of your Project: *
12/31/2020

5. Please describe the overall proposed timeline for your project between these two dates, including the expected timeline for development, execution, and final presentations. *
08/2019:
Content, production details identified. Technical support implemented.
09/2019:
Public kiosk installed with basic functionality.
10/2019:
Key contributors and facilitators confirmed.
03/2020:
First iteration of content available.
06/2020:
Second iteration of content available.
09/2020:
Third iteration of content available.
12/2020:
Public kiosk remains installed through this date.

 6. What is the estimated total audience for your proposed public presentation? *
500

7. What is the total projected budget for the project? *
6000

8. What amount of funding would you like to request from RACC? *
6000

