Project Title (if this has changed since you applied, please provide original AND final titles). *

Futel: Old Phones, New Secrets

Primary Applicant Name *

Collaborator Names *

Primary Applicant Phone Number *

Primary Applicant Mailing Address *



Learnings (2,000 characters max.) *
What did you learn from executing your project? Identify some successes and challenges you experienced in, for example, collaboration, partnerships, public/community engagement, marketing and publicity, logistics, finances, timeline, budget, venue/space, etc. Focus on what feels most important.

While the arc of the project remains unchanged, I, as the director of Futel, have learned to tighten the scope of my proposals, with a finite project and minimum duration as opposed to a less defined participation in a network of sites. Precipice did not make these demands, which was excellent because it allowed me to grow the project and allow collaborators to help on their own schedules, but I have found that other Futel proposals, including proposals to fulfill some of the goals of the Precipice-funded project, were improved with a well-defined scope.


Audience / Public / Community (2,000 characters max.) *
Briefly describe your project's public or audience component. What form did it take and how did you feel about it? If your original proposal included significant community engagement, please describe that activity here. You may articulate impact based on your own criteria for success.

The audience was, and continues to be, the members of the public who interact with our public installations, both interacting with the participatory features and experiencing previous contributions. Some of these users are drawn in by the functional features of the phone, and others have visited specifically because they heard about it. Other engagement includes readers of our blog, audio publications, and print publications, each of which were updated with content form the grant project.


Local Artists Served *
How did your project serve artists local to your area?

Futel is a platform for its contributors. These include the listed collaborators, and public contributors. Over fifty people, most anonymous or pseudonymous, contributed content to our interactive features through our public phones.



Did you form any new partnerships as part of your project? (e.g., with another artist/project, institution, or community group) *
Yes
No
If yes, who? Briefly describe the partnership development and what was learned. (2,000 characters max)

We formed a partnership with the Village Coalition to develop sites and projects with its members. We also gained collaborators after speaking at the Decon:Reuse conference.



Would you have wanted more or less PICA-initiated engagement with other Precipice Fund grantees? If more, what are some ways in which you would want to interact or be connected? (2,000 characters max) *

As a semi-professional artist, I am always interested in finding new ways to publicize my projects and find collaborators.



Was the Precipice Fund Town Hall interesting or useful? If you didn't attend, why or why not? If you did, what suggestions for improvement would you offer? (2,000 characters max) *

The Town Hall was interesting, and useful because artists described what worked and what didn't with their projects.



What project budget amount did you originally propose? *

$4730


What was the project's final total cost? (approximate ok). For a range of reasons, this figure might not match what you first budgeted. *

$5000

Did you secure additional funding for your project outside of Precipice Fund? *

Yes



Budget Modifications (if applicable) (2,000 characters max.)
If there is a significant difference between your proposed and final budgets/project costs, what changes or adjustments were made, and why? Hod did you choose to modify? What did you learn in the budget revision process? NOTE: You do NOT need to submit a final budget spreadsheet (though we recommend you keep one for your records, along with receipts for project expenses).



Impact of the Precipice Fund Grant *
In your own words, briefly describe how the Precipice Fund grant award impacted your project.

The Precipice Fund allowed the project to continue operating and grow throughout 2017.
