Project Title

Futel: Old Phones, New Secrets


Total Grant Request


Name of Primary Applicant

Anderson, Karl


Collaborator Names

Jason Plumb 
Alex Norman
Elijah St. Clair
Debbie Wager


Primary Applicatant Email Address

kra@monkey.org


Primary Applicant Phone Number


Primary Applicant Permanent Address


Email Address of one collaborator


Phone Number of one collaborator


Summary (75 words max.) *

Futel is a network of free phone booths installed in public and semi-public locations throughout Portland. Looking at first glance like any normal payphone, Futel phones connect callers for free and offer additional options for interactivity, community building, education, and creativity, all designed and implemented by local artists, with some features provided by live operators. Equal parts hacker art and grassroots community service, Futel phones introduce a touch of ordinary magic into the urban landscape.


Concept / Description (300 words max) *

A Futel phone is just a payphone on the outside, a rugged example of public street furniture, and can be used to make calls. However, Futel phones are free to use and offer creative services and amusements along with the familiar dialtone. A closer inspection will reveal visual differences between a Futel phone and an ordinary payphone, with iconography and text replacing the usual advertising copy, but it is through use that the deeper surprises are revealed. 

A Futel phone is centered around connecting people and helping them communicate, which is reflected by the features we offer. Some of these are straightforward, including free calls, directories of social service numbers, and free voicemail. Some are interactive and creative, such as a periodically updated audio zine of curated user messages, featured artist contributions presenting poetry and audio art, and mysterious challenges solvable using only the phone. The most freeform service provided is the operator line, currently staffed by six volunteers, where a caller can be connected to a live operator who can answer questions, or just talk.

Futel phones currently exist in three locations, and have served the public since June 2014. With funding from the Precipice Fund this project will expand to include four new locations, establishing service in several of Portland’s quadrants, and allowing the expansion of two additional interactive features accessible from every Futel phone.

The technology behind Futel is based on reuse, recycling, and scrappy hacker practicality. Futel’s computing and communication hardware is made up almost exclusively of used and obsolete devices, including salvaged payphones and used twenty year old routers running open source firmware.


Public Component, Audience/Participants (150 words max.) *

The function of Futel is inherently social and sneakily creative. By inviting anyone interested in or in need of our payphones, the project provides any passerby free communication with loved ones and resources, as well as a chance to engage with directories of information and fun activities.

Futel installations are discovered through word of mouth, media, and observing other users, until the mere existence of a popular payphone becomes its own advertisement.

Once a Futel phone is picked up, unexpected interactions will draw in the user. Some of these are passive, where audio and information are presented. Some are active, where the user can contribute with their own voice. And some are ongoing, where contributions from the user will change the experience of callers in the future. An incoming line will allow interaction to continue from other phones.


Support of Local/Regional Artists and Audiences (150 words max) *

Audience participation is fundamental to Futel. The project centers on both communication-oriented community service and an invitation to engage in unexpected experiences. The use of accessible, street-oriented technology allows community members to interact with art and information, even those who might otherwise feel alienated from the spaces where they are traditionally offered. Futel’s offerings of surprise, communication, and access can shift individuals’ perception of the surrounding community and the way they share creativity and connection within it.

Formally, local artists will be involved with Futel through the creation of two interactive audio pieces, "Auto-Longmont" and "Communication With Those Beyond", as well as additional works in development. Less formally, The Wildcard Line, an audio digest accessible from any Futel phone, allows callers to share their experiences with each other. The Operator Line provides a direct and unscripted connection between users and artists, with live operators available to talk to users directly.


Project Goals (150 words max., use bullet point or numbered list format) *

-Augment users' interaction with their built environment
-Provide creative and thoughtful interactions to a wide public audience
-Critique modern communication and device obsession
-Add a sense of wonder and surprise to common urban experiences
-Offer access to social services and tools for social mobility, including directory services, mental health advocacy, and utilities 
-Produce and showcase interactive algorithmic art and creative technology
-Spread visibility of the communication issues facing disadvantaged individuals
-Educate users about the history of hacking, phreaking, and other creative and subversive uses of technology
-Offer free access to telephone services
-Produce and distribute the second issue of  “Party Line”, containing a yearly review of Futel’s activity, historical hacker culture articles, and articles
-Produce two or more episodes of “The Wildcard Line”, an audio zine featuring contributions by users of Futel phones
-Continue to produce a blog, Twitter feed, and website to showcase Futel and inform the public


Project Space or Venue (75 words max.) *

Futel will install phones at sites in Sellwood, Hosford-Abernathy, and other neighborhoods, and pending approval of a proposal being developed with library staff, at two Multnomah County Public Library sites. Futel will continue to operate existing sites at SE Clinton, NE Ainsworth, and Right To Dream Too at NW Burnside.

Our site selection prioritizes easy access from sidewalks and neighborhoods with diverse demographics. We aim to serve a wide range of communities and diverse usership.

Timeline (150 words max.) *

Jan 1 – Dec 31 proposals continue to be submitted for new phone locations
Jan 1 – Dec 31 existing phones and incoming line continue to be operational
Feb 1 New installation installed in Sellwood
Mar 1 New installation installed in Hosford-Abernathy
Mar 1 New issue of “Party Line” published
Apr 1 Complete hardware for at least two new installations purchased
Apr 1 New edition of collaborative feature “Wildcard Line” produced
Jun 1 One or more new operators trained
Jul 1 New feature, “Communication With Those Beyond”, released
Oct 1 New installation installed, preferably at one of two Multnomah County Public Library locations
Nov 1 New edition of collaborative feature “Wildcard Line” produced
Dec 1 New feature, “Auto-Longmont”, released
Dec 31 New installation installed, preferably at one of two Multnomah County Public Library locations


Budget Form Upload *


Budget Narrative (100 words max.) *

Our largest expense is the physical installation materials such as payphones and enclosures, which we get used from salvage sources, as well as concrete, wiring, and other hardware. Installation labor and incidental expenses such as fuel is donated. Our next expense is cloud computing services, mostly virtual computer time purchased from DigitalOcean. These numbers are based on our operating expenses in 2016, during which two to four installations were operational 24 hours a day.


Anything else? (optional)

In Futel, I am attempting to create a synthesis between the amazing and the banal, and to provide an opportunity for individuals and communities to discover and experience art in everyday locations. I am interested in pedestrian and urban settings over galleries, festivals, and other protected environments. I don't feel like Futel collaborators are providing the experience of art to the public, but instead providing an opportunity for the public to share that experience for us and each other.
