1) Describe what you need money for.Include “what it is” and explain where and when the project will take place. (up to 250 words)

The Detroit Bus Company / Futel Public Telephone Enterprise will install and develop programs for a public phone and audio art installation. The result of this collaboration will be a community-based, extended-run installation utilizing the Futel phone platform and tailored for members of the Corktown community.

Beyond simply providing free public phone service, the Futel phone will provide a platform for artists to develop and contribute content designed to engage the community and highlight the importance of place and history. We will commission audio content from local artists, which will be accessible from the phone through a recorded directory of services. 
 
The Futel phone will be installed and functional outside of the Detroit Bus Project headquarters at 1990 Bagley in Detroit by December 2019, and will remain functional and available to the public at all hours throughout 2020, with the potential for continuing beyond the initial year. 

2) Why is this important? (up to 100 words)

The public phone was once a ubiquitous component of the social landscape. In the 1980’s, there were about 60,000 in Michigan. By 2017, roughly 1,400 remained. Cellphones made public phones unprofitable, but they are still useful and valuable for many people. In their absence, a means of communication tied to specific places has been lost.

We will reintroduce the public phone back into the urban environment. Unlike the payphones of yesteryear, ours will be free for calls to most of North America. The phone will also host interactive audio content developed by local artists.


3) Do you have community partners? If so, please describe who are they and how are they involved in shaping your project? (up to 150 words)

The Detroit Bus Company / Futel Public Telephone Enterprise is, unsurprisingly, made up of members of The Detroit Bus Company and Futel. The Detroit Bus Company (https://thedetroitbus.com/) is a longstanding Corktown presence, providing free community-strengthening transportation services since 2012. Futel (http://futel.net/) has been installing free payphones since 2014, and has been providing services to Michigan with a public phone in Ypsilanti and several technical and creative volunteers in Detroit, Ypsilanti, and Ann Arbor.
 
4) Does your project promote a more inclusive, equitable community? If so, please describe. (up to 150 words)
 
We believe that a highly accessible free public telephone that doubles as a platform for participatory community expression is a model of an equitable and inclusive public resource. 

The installation will be accessible for anybody to use, free of charge, without requiring a cell phone, membership sign-up, advertising, or any form of identity tracking.
5) Who are some of the creative people involved? Who are some of the project managers (if they are different people)? How do the creators plan and work together? (up to 150 words)
 
Randy Chabot will contribute musical and spoken word recordings. Randy has been touring and recording for over a decade, and has been active in the Detroit DIY music scene for years, running shows at Scrummage University, the CAID, Northend Studios, the Paper House, Adult Contemporary Tires, and the Majestic Complex.

Mond Sankara will contribute spoken word recordings. Mond is an artist, writer, and activist in Detroit. He has organized workers in coalition with the Communist Workers League, Moratorium NOW, the Michigan Peoples Defense Network, and the Poor Peoples Campaign.

Andy Didirosi will oversee installation and maintenance. Andy is director of the Detroit Bus Project. Karl Anderson will provide volunteer coordination, operational support, and artistic integration. Karl is director of Futel. Chris Czub will facilitate curation and artist relations. Chris is a musician and organizer of arts and technology events such as the A2Y.ASM conference and Works in Progress show.


6) Do you have experience in doing similar projects? If so, briefly describe. (up to 150 words)
 
The Detroit Bus Project specializes in identifying a local need and developing a successful, community-based response. While no two projects look alike, each reflects a commitment 
to making life in Detroit a little easier and more equitable. 

Futel has installed 9 public phones to date, providing nearly 18,000 free calls in 2018. The platform and functionality have been well tested in real-world settings since 2014.

7) If more money is needed than this grant will pay for, how will you raise that money? (up to 100 words)
This project can be executed within the $3,000 grant, as shown by previous Futel projects that have been performed with a similar budget. The wages described cover about half of the work being supplied to the project, with the rest being provided by volunteer labor.
8) Is there anything else you would like to tell us? If so, please share. (up to 250 words)

The Detroit Bus Company / Futel Public Telephone Enterprise is a new collaboration between two community service oriented groups, each with a successful track record of devising creative solutions for community needs using common technology. We are both experienced in using our infrastructure to give away public services once common but now eroded by economics and inequality, and are looking forward to launching another project to support Detroit neighborhood cultural solidarity.

