Please provide a working title for your project

The Old Town Crier



Please provide a one-sentence summary of your project

Futel and Street Roots will deploy and operate a public installation to deliver participatory creative spoken and audio works, connections to resources, human interaction, and free telephone service.



Primary Artistic Discipline

Social Practice/Participatory Art



Is the vision for your project primarily driven by an arts and culture nonprofit; or an independent artist, culture bearer, curator, producer or collective? (check one)

Independent artist, culture bearer or collective



Name of Lead Artist (e.g. artist, curator, producer, creative, culture bearer, collective/group)

Futel, contact Karl Anderson



Do you have a Lead Nonprofit partner identified?

Yes



If a Lead Nonprofit has been identified, please provide their name below

Personal Telco Project



If a Lead Nonprofit has been identified, please describe the relationship between the Lead Artist and the Lead Nonprofit. 600

Besides fiscal sponsorship, Personal Telco Project and Futel have a long relationship and similar missions of supporting accessible communication and bridging the digital divide. Personal Telco Project has provided hardware and expertise for Futel projects, and Russell Senior, president of Personal Telco Project, is a Futel volunteer. Personal Telco Project also collaborates with Street Roots on other projects.



Who are you? 600

Futel runs an ongoing network of public art and service installations, with 14 in Portland and three in other cities. We also publish media in print, audio, and the web. We have collaborated with Street Roots, Open Signal, Right To Dream Too, the Village Coalition, and individual artists.

Street Roots publishes a weekly social justice newspaper sold by people experiencing homelessness and poverty to earn an income. The newspaper features writing by its vendors in every issue, and the vendor community is supported by a resource center, creative writing programs, and advocacy.



What is your idea for a Creative Heights project? 1500

Futel and Street Roots will design, install, and run a new public installation featuring a new interactive audio program, "The Old Town Crier".

A Futel installation housed in a payphone will be installed on the front facade of the new Street Roots space at 219-223 W Burnside St, Old Town Portland. It will be accessible and operational from the public sidewalk at all hours for the duration of the two year project.

An interactive audio program featuring three works created by Street Roots vendors will be showcased by the installation. Street Roots will conduct outreach, workshops, and practical support for artists.  Artist proposals will be selected by Street Roots vendors and faculty with emphasis on promoting the work of the artists, culture bearers, and witnesses for houseless people in Portland. Artists and contributors will be compensated for their work.

There are many possible formats for the created works. Previous projects have included interviews about neighborhood history, directories of poetry and spoken word, interactive music, participatory talk shows and audio zines, and live operators.

The installation will provide free phone calls, directories of services and opportunities, and other telephony features. The installation will also provide a guide to the facilities in the new Street Roots space, including a library, recording studio, newsroom, laundry, and showers.

Futel engineers will build and maintain the installation and related IT services.



Who do you want to work with? 600

The audio program of the project will be created by Street Roots vendors and selected by vendors and faculty in Street Roots creative writing programs. Street Roots faculty and staff involved with the project will include Katy Rossing, Poetry Instructor, and Allie Morgan, Lead Vendor Assistant.



How is this project a stretch from previous work done by the lead artist or other creative collaborators involved? What creative risks will you and your collaborators take? 900

This project will expand Futel's work and grow our practice in several ways. It will allow us to develop and build an installation with a new creative theme and focus. It will let us collaborate with new artists and forge connections with the Street Roots community of vendors, faculty, and advocates, who work towards similar goals but with different media. Finally, it will deploy the first Futel installation west of the Willamette River, at NW 3rd and Burnside. This site is ideal for a Futel installation and will enable future creative and operational growth, with excellent visibility, foot traffic, accessible pedestrian-friendly space, and of course Street Roots. The project will expand the work of Street Roots and its vendors with the opportunity to make and distribute their work in a new creative format very well suited for promoting their values of opportunity, sustainability, and mutual aid.



What impact do you hope this work will have on the community and/or your artistic field? 900

The project will increase neighborhood equity for the community of people experiencing homelessness in Old Town Portland by enhancing a humanizing pedestrian space.

With their newspapers and installations, Street Roots and Futel have long-running programs that share goals. They provide tools for communication and expression, they help people share skills, opportunities, and resources, and they are designed to be accessible to unhoused people.

The work will produce creative and practical growth for the community of houseless people in Old Town Portland with new media skill development, experience, and collaboration. The project will publicize Street Roots' new location, promote outreach, and encourage usage of the new resources. It will benefit the neighborhood and its advocates with new tools for communication and expression.



Select a preliminary grant request range

$10-24K
