Narrative
Refer to the application guide for details on NECN’s funding priorities. Narrative section should be
no more than two pages long (approx. 1000 words).
Proposals exceeding this length will not be considered for funding.


1) Explain how your project helps NECN meet the goals and priorities of this
grant program.
Your response should include how the project will improve the lives of residents of
N/NE Portland and how it meets the criteria outlined in the application guide.

The North Williams Avenue Futel Phone will increase community-oriented public space in the Eliot neighborhood by repurposing an interactive public kiosk that was once common - the public telephone. We will install a payphone and enclosure accessible from the sidewalk near Dawson Park. The phone does not accept money, it is only a familiar item of urban furniture. But it will provide free telephone calls, as well as interactive audio art, directories of public services, interesting numbers to call, and live operator assistance.

The featured artwork on the installation will a collection of Paul Knauls interviews, conducted for presentation on Futel phones as part of the "People's Homes" multimedia project, by Emily Fitzgerald and Molly Sherman. Paul Knauls, the honorary "Mayor of NE Portland", has been a fixture of Dawson Park, adjacent to our installation.

Our project will support the goals of the Community Grants program by engaging and involving a diverse group of people in an interactive artistic project. The project, like our previous and current installations, will bring in participants and collaborators who would otherwise be hard to reach with public art alone.

Our project will also support the goals of the Community Grants program by building community identity and relationships. The project will do this by illustrating and celebrating Dawson Park as a long-lasting community hub.

Participants will be able to walk up and use our installation from the sidewalk without money, a smartphone, or any identifying information. By combining art and a well-understood public service, we provide a unique entry point for interaction and offer opportunities to join participatory creative experiences. 

2) Identify community organization partners involved in this project and
describe their anticipated role(s).
Please state whether this partnership is ongoing or whether this is a new partnership
developed for your proposed projects. NOTE: A letter of support is required from
each partner organization.

Microcosm Publishing will host the installation, which will be accessible from the sidewalk in front of their North Williams Avenue storefront. This is a new partnership developed for this project.

3) Describe how the budget supports the project.
a) Describe how requested funds will be used.
b) Describe any leveraged and donated resources. This could include volunteer
time, in-kind donations, or other funds being sought or used for this project.

The budget will fully support the installation of one kiosk, and provide services to keep it operational for one year. We project that it will continue to be operational for at least five more years, with further support paid for by current and future patrons as we continue the fundraising and volunteer organizing which has supported our installations since 2014.

The budget includes $1750 in project materials. The grant will provide $1500 for a payphone, pedestal, and hardware. We are leveraging $250 in re-used experimental and demonstration IT hardware from a 2021-2022 RACC Make|Learn|Build grant.

The budget includes $4400 for personnel, with $200 provided by the grant and $4000 donated by volunteers.

The budget includes $750 for participant support, with the grant providing $50 to support workers and $100 for an artist stipend, and $600 in creative participant stipends donated by volunteers.

The budget includes $750 in additional expenses, with $25 for promotional materials provided by the grant and donated or leveraged services of $100 for promotional labor, $250 for site upkeep labor, and $375 for computing and internet services.

4) Describe your plan to promote your project in the community. Include your
community outreach plan, i.e. (neighborhood associations, outreach to
underrepresented communities, local businesses, residents, print & social media).

The project will be promoted through flyers and posters in the neighborhood of Dawson Park. The project will also be promoted through posters on the four current Futel installations in the Vernon, Concordia, and Alberta neighborhoods. Our installations, being prominently available in public spaces, have always gained adoption and interaction through observation and word of mouth, and we expect good results from this location, which is next to a bus stop and near Dawson Park.

5) Provide a simple timeline for your project.
Include your expected start and completion dates and any major project milestones.

March 2022: Repair and refurbish equipment, purchase any replacement parts or supplies needed, and assemble all hardware needed for fully functioning kiosk.

Early April 2022: Install fully functioning kiosk. Promote installation on flyers and Futel and Microcosm websites.

April-December 2022: Maintain kiosk and surrounding site to ensure functionality is not interrupted. Repair or replace hardware as necessary. Maintain service.

December 2022: Kiosk remains operational with featured content through duration of grant period. Kiosk remains operational afterwards with rotating content.

Individual grant awards will not exceed $2,000.00. Below are general budget categories.
Projects are not required to include items in every section.
