1. Applicants are eligible for this grant if they fall into one of the following categories. Which are you?

Individual(s) partnering with a tax-exempt nonprofit fiscal sponsor


2. Fiscal sponsor (if applicable)

PDX Hackerspace

3. What is the critical and current community challenge or opportunity your
proposal addresses? limit 1,000

Our installation and project "The Old Town Crier" will facilitate expression and communication, and will provide essential practical communication tools with extremely low barriers to accessibility.

Futel and Street Roots will develop and deploy a public interactive installation and integrated creative project, designed and implemented by and for residents of Portland's Old Town and Chinatown neighborhoods.

We seek to strengthen one aspect of community-oriented public space by repurposing an interactive kiosk that was once common - the public telephone. By combining participatory creative projects and free vital communication services, we will mix artistic and practical goals.


4. Who will you be working with? List your partners (groups or people). limit 1,000

Street Roots vendors will provide artistic and practical direction and content. Street Roots vendor assistants will provide administration and artistic support. Street Roots will host the installation and provide outreach, publicity, and distribution support.

Futel will provide administration, implementation, and operations support, and develop artistic and practical communications solutions integrated with the installation. Futel will also provide outreach, publicity, and distribution support.

Personal Telco Project will provide operational support and IT hardware. Personal Telco Project builds shared community networks and provides technology education.

PDX Hackerspace is the fiscal sponsor, and also facilitates general technical support through its community resources. PDX Hackerspace promotes and encourages technical, scientific, and creative skills through individual projects, social collaboration, and education, with a community hub in North Portland.


5. Describe what you would do with this grant. (Applicants asking for operating support for your
nonprofit, use this space to describe your mission and work expected through June 2025. To be
eligible, there should be clear alignment with the four Community Placemaking objectives.) limit 2,500

Futel and Street Roots will install one new public installation which will showcase a new interactive audio program, "The Old Town Crier".

The visible part of the installation will consist of a payphone and payphone enclosure on the exterior wall of the new Street Roots office building in Old Town Portland. The installation will be operational and accessible to anyone from the public sidewalk at all hours for the duration of the project.

The audio program will consist of three projects, each produced by a Street Roots vendor. Artists will be chosen by a call for proposals administered by Street Roots vendor assistants, with preference given to topics vital to the Old Town and Chinatown neighborhoods. Projects might include oral history, poetry and music, or ongoing spoken word with contributions from users of the installation, or may include other formats designed by the artists and adapted by Futel.

Content developed for this project will also be distributed through other media, including the Street Roots newspaper and website, and the Futel website and publications.

Implementation of the call for proposals will begin in March 2024. The installation will be deployed, and artists will be selected and begin work, by July 2024. Artists work will be showcased by the installation through June 2025. The installation and showcased work will remain on site and operational after the end of the program.

The installation will be able to interact with 11 currently operational installations in the Futel network in Portland, as well as the telephone network. "The Old Town Crier" content and interactive program, as well as features determined by Street Roots vendors and vendor assistants, will be unique to this installation.


6. Racial equity is core to the Community Placemaking program. Is there anything else you want to share
about how your efforts are led by, include and/or benefit Black, Indigenous, people of color or other
historically marginalized communities? limit 1,500

This project is led by and benefits houseless residents of the Old Town and Chinatown neighborhoods, a marginalized community which also over-represents of several other marginalized communities.

Our installations are radically accessible. Participants can walk up and use them from the sidewalk without money, an app, or any identifying information. By combining art and a well-understood public service, we provide a unique entry point for interaction and offer opportunities to join participatory creative experiences. Previous projects by both Futel and Street Roots have brought in participants and collaborators who would otherwise be hard to reach with public art alone.


7. What kind of impact do you hope to have? How will your efforts help people feel more connected to
each other? limit 1,500

The project's greatest impact will be in sharing an accessible artistic and communication tool with the residents of the Old Town and Chinatown neighborhoods. It will amplify and showcase the creative voices of the neighborhoods, and it will also provide valuable tools for resiliency with free telephone calls and guides for telephone-based services.

The project will benefit the ongoing artistic and practical mission of Street Roots by enabling another creative and economic avenue for Street Roots vendors. It will also benefit Futel's ongoing artistic mission by letting us implement a focused artistic project facilitated by a public installation.


8. Where will this happen? How will your efforts make people feel more connected to this place/these
places? limit 1,500

The installation will be sited at the exterior wall of the Street Roots office at 219-233 West Burnside,  and will be accessible to the public from the sidewalk. This installation will be positioned to serve the residents of the Old Town and Chinatown neighborhoods. Street Roots is an established advocacy organization for these neighborhoods, as well a source of employment and creative opportunities, which draws on the lived experience of its vendors and board to guide its policies.


9. Is there anything else you want to say? limit 1,000

Inspired by models of DIY publishing and distribution such as zines, file sharing, and ham radio, we want our network to be useful for both making art and making calls. Oral history and storytelling have been a natural direction for our projects, but we are most effective when we can take these concepts in a new media direction, combining audio content with public participation in unexpected ways. We have a proven track record of using grant funds to successfully implement projects over several years, both solo projects and in collaboration with Open Signal, the Village Coalition, the Social Justice Action Center, and other organizations.

Futel installations are tools like microphones and video cameras. They don’t have a single, predetermined function. They are the infrastructure for interaction and communication. This partnership, and this grant supporting it, will give us another opportunity to use these tools in the support of people in the Old Town and Chinatown neighborhoods.
