3. What is the critical and current community challenge or opportunity your proposal addresses?
1000

Futel will offer expression and communication opportunities and tools to diverse participants in Portland's Old Town and Chinatown neighborhoods.

By combining participatory art and free communication services, we will mix artistic and practical goals to provide a mouthpiece for local voices.

Gentrification and other urban economic forces have displaced communities in Portland for decades. Some of these forces involve the targeted commodification of community-oriented privileges, such as information sharing and creative social interaction. We seek to strengthen one aspect of community-oriented public space by repurposing an interactive public kiosk that was once common - the public telephone.

4. Who will you be working with? List your partners (groups or people).
1000

Sisters of the Road will host the new installations, provide outreach, and provide administration for the artistic project, including running a call for proposals.
PDX Hackerspace is our fiscal sponsor.
Futel workers include an electrical engineer, an audio engineer, an IT operations engineer, and a construction consultant.

5. Describe what you would do with this grant.
2500

Futel will install two interactive storytelling portals in telephone kiosks. One kiosk will be accessible to the public from the sidewalk in front of Sisters of the Road Cafe at 133 NW 6th Ave in Portland, and one will be portable, sited within the cafe and moved for events or other opportunities for interaction.

Sisters of the Road will call for proposals for audio works on topics vital to the people it serves, including community development, the strengthening of neighborhood relationships, and communication opportunities.

Three artists selected from the Sisters of the Road community will contribute to the project. These works will involve interactions and contributions from users of the telephone kiosks, as well as users of existing Futel telephone installations in public locations in Portland.

Contributions will be curated into a program which will be accessible from the phones and can elicit further comments from the producers and other public contributors. Depending on the artistic direction of the creators, the completed work may resemble a non-live version of a call-in radio program, a podcast interview, a collection of soapbox speeches, or something else entirely.

The program will also be distributed through other Futel audio installations, websites, and publications. After the creative project is complete, the telephone kiosks featuring the program will remain on site.

6. Racial equity is core to the Community Placemaking program. Is there anything else you want to share about how your efforts are led by, include and/or benefit Black, Indigenous, people of color or other historically marginalized communities?
1500

Our installations are radically accessible. Participants can walk up and use them from the sidewalk without money, an app, or any identifying information. By combining art and a well-understood public service, we provide a unique entry point for interaction and offer opportunities to join participatory creative experiences. Previous projects have brought in participants and collaborators who would otherwise be hard to reach with public art alone.

Futel has hosted work by several artists. BIPOC-led work that Futel has facilitated includes pieces by Sharita Towne, Patricia Vazquez, and Machado Mijiga, and we continue to be excited to promote BIPOC voices. While we have never tracked our users or required demographic information at previous installations, we do talk to a lot of houseless users, and houseless themes are often present in the contributions from Futel users to our previous and ongoing interactive projects.

7. What kind of impact do you hope to have? How will your efforts help people feel more connected to each other?
1500

The project's greatest impact will be in presenting an accessible artistic and communication tool to the public, which will strengthen neighborhood involvement and amplify community voices. Additionally, this project will benefit Futel's ongoing artistic mission by providing a focused artistic project to be facilitated by a public phone. It will also benefit Sisters of the Road by providing a media project for people in the neighborhood of its building to interact with, as well as important communication tools for its community.

8. Where will this happen? How will your efforts make people feel more connected to this place/these places?
1500

The installations will be sited at Sisters of the Road, 133 NW 6th Ave, Portland, and the program will be curated to reflect issues relevant to the Old Town/Chinatown neighborhood. Existing Futel installations SE, NE, and N Portland will have a supporting role, allowing interaction with the work.

9. Is there anything else you want to say?
If not, write "N/A" in the box below. (You will not be able to successfully submit your application with the box left blank.)
1000

Inspired by models of DIY publishing and distribution such as zines, file sharing, and ham radio, we want our network to be useful for both making art and making calls. Oral history and storytelling have been a natural direction for our projects, but we are most effective when we can take these concepts in a new media direction, combining audio content with public participation in unexpected ways. We have a proven track record of using grant funds to successfully implement this over several years, both solo projects and in collaboration with Open Signal, the Village Coalition, and other organizations.

Futel phones are tools like microphones and video cameras. They don’t have a single, predetermined function. They are the infrastructure for interaction and communication. This partnership, and this grant supporting it, will give us another opportunity to use these tools in the support of people and communities.
