https://racc.bamboohr.com/careers/53?source=aWQ9MTY%3D

How have you increased your knowledge and practice of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Access (EDIA) topics?

The artistic and community success of most of my recent work has relied on its relevance to the neighborhoods where they are installed, and the pedestrians who walk there. This relevance has come from centering the experiences of people who are involved with these locations, so part of my work has involved learning how to provide opportunities for equity and access, both before the work is installed and while it operates.

In addition to my own creative and practical direction, my partnerships with Open Signal, the Village Coalition, Right To Dream Too, and SJAC, and work with Sisters Of The Road, has given me experience in using my skills - artistic, managerial, and practical - to facilitate the stories of others, and making sure that the benefits they receive from working with the project are attractive.

How are you involved in the arts community?

I am the director, lead creative, and lead implementer of Futel, an artistic and social services project. Futel has been active for nine years and currently operates eleven public installations in Portland and other cities. Futel has featured work by myself and other Portland artists. Other artistic participants have become involved through personal outreach, through public calls for participation for projects which I have directed, and by partnerships with Open Signal and the Village Coalition. I also coordinate volunteers for the project, with five to 15 being active at any one time. In addition to Futel, I have also provided practical support for the projects of other artists, implementing gallery installations and interactive kiosks.

As a member of DorkbotPDX, a group dedicated to the creative use of technology, I have participated in gallery shows, meetups, and presentations.

I have exhibited artwork at AFRU Gallery, Diode Gallery, the XOXO conference, and the Teardown conference, and I have presented at several conferences in Portland including Teardown, Decon + Reuse, Curiosity Club, and Portland Creative Coders.

What do you consider the primary (and secondary, if applicable) artistic disciplines/mediums you are qualified to review? (e.g., theater, visual arts, music, film, dance, social practice)

Social practice is primary, multimedia is secondary.

Describe your prior experience (if any) with the review, evaluation, or critique of projects/proposals.

I participated in the public call for proposals for a Futel installation at Open Signal in 2020, providing input for evaluation criteria and applicability for the judges and applicants, and providing creative and technical support for the selected artists with their projects.

My projects have been the subject of review and critique for years, and I have written several successful grant proposals awarded by RACC, the Precipice Fund, Awesome Portland, and others, as well as many more unsuccessful proposals sent to several organizations.

What interests you about the role of Community Panel Reviewer?

Participating in the review process will give me insight about artistic practice, and will expose me to ideas from other artists. I am also a supporter of RACC and have learned a lot from the feedback I have received when submitting my own proposals.

Describe your lived experience that may contribute to RACC assembling a diverse cohort of reviewers.

My experience has not been lived, however I have received training to understand some of the requirements of houseless patrons, and have worked directly with houseless partners at Hygiene4All and Right 2 Dream Too.

Have you engaged with RACC’s programs or services in the past? If yes, how so?

I have executed projects funded by RACC grants in 2023, 2021, 2019, and 2015, including an Arts3C grant, with all projects completed successfully. I have also submitted many other grant proposals and have communicated with RACC workers to receive feedback after proposals weren't accepted.

How did you learn about this opportunity?

An artist I have worked with in Portland told me and forwarded a link.

Provide a link to online website or creative portfolio, if available.

https://futel.net/
