Project Title

Dreams of The Future, Here Today, Don't Wait!

* Tell us about your awesome project!

Futel will install an interactive audio installation in the pedestrian area. Housed in a payphone, the installation will be active and accessible to the public at all hours for the duration of the project period, and will feature a participatory audio artwork designed for this grant project.


* How will you use the money?

We will build the installation, install and operate it in the pedestrian area for the duration of the project, and distribute the curated collection of recorded interactions afterwards.

* Tell us a little about yourself

Futel is a social service and arts organization salvaging and refurbishing payphones and telephony equipment to provide truly public communications services. Our phone installations provide free calls, services, live human interaction, community engagement, and interactive audio art, and most are available on the street 24 hours a day. We have been active for eight years, currently have 11 public phones, and provided over 10,000 free calls in 2021. We also provide free phone service to Village Coalition and Hygiene Center sites in Portland.


Images


Please tell us about your sculpture idea and how it reflects the theme of “Dreams for Portland’s Future”. With this, let us know what materials you'll use and some basic information about its construction. Please attach your project budget.

Installation Details

The installation will allow the public to participate and contribute to a new collaborative audio work, "Dreams of The Future, Here Today, Don't Wait!". During attended hours, live operators will guide users to reveal and record their thoughts and feelings about their future in Portland and their places in its communities. At other hours, interactive menus will allow users to hear earlier contributions and add their own.

The installation will be housed in a payphone, an example of public urban furniture which was once a common way for people to communicate with each other for all reasons, important and trivial, happy and sad. The installation will also provide free telephone calls and directories of social services in Portland.

After the installation period, the curated recorded work, with content from people who chose to interact with the installation, will be showcased on other Futel installations, as well as through the Futel website and other distribution channels on the web.

Materials

The installation will consist of a payphone and pedestal, bolted to the pavement and containing Futel's telecom equipment. An integrated solar panel and battery will provide power.

Budget

$500 payphone, pedestal
$300 solar panel, battery, controller, electrical hardware
$200 various mounting materials and hardware
$100 computing and VOIP hardware
$200 telephony, internet, cloud computing, and other IT services
$500 artist and development compensation
$500 interactive guide compensation
$100 installation hardware
$300 installer expenses, compensation
$300 admin expenses
total $3000

Other expenses
$300 liability insurance



What is your experience with making sculptures and have you had any sculptures in a public setting before? Please attach at least 3 examples of your sculptural artwork in public or private settings.


Installations:
Right To Dream Too, NW Third and Burnside, Portland, January 2015 to present.
Sidewalk, NE Ainsworth Street, Portland, February 2016 to present.
Sidewalk, SE Taylor Street, Portland, November 2016 to present.
Alley, NE Killingsworth Street, Portland, January 2018 to present.
Alley, Pearl Street, Ypsilanti, Michigan, March 2018 to present.
Sidewalk, NE Killingsworth Street, Portland, December 2018 to present.
Parking lot, Sou'Wester Lodge, Seaview, Washington, March 2019 to present.
Bar, Upright Brewing, N Broadway, Portland, July 2019 to present.
Sidewalk, 23rd Street, Detroit, Michigan, November 2019 to present.
Sidewalk, N Central St, Portland, October 2020 to present.
Sidewalk, N Saratoga St, Portland, September 2021 to present.
Sidewalk, SE Cesar Chavez Blvd, Portland, January 2022 to present.
Sidewalk, SE Bush St, Portland, May 2022 to present.
Sidewalk, SE Clinton Street, Portland, June 2014 to December 2021.
Sidewalk, N Interstate Avenue, Portland, February 2016 to July 2016.
Sidewalk, SE Woodward Street, Portland, November 2018 to January 2021.
Sidewalk, NE Martin Luther King Jr Blvd, Portland, January 2020 to December 2021.

Exhibits:
Hold The Phone, Open Signal, April-November 2020.
Futel Remote Testing Facility, Virtual ToorCamp, June 2020.
Futel Interactive Installation, Teardown, May 2018.
Futel Interactive Installation, ToorCamp, Orcas Island, Washington, July 2016.
Futel: Communication From Beyond The Veil, AFRU gallery, February 2016.
Futel Interactive Installation, ToorCamp, Neah Bay, Washington, July 2014.

Expertise and experience in designing and building solar/battery powered installations comes from a program funded by a RACC Make|Learn|Build grant in 2021.




Is your application for our special public art grant, or should we hold it until our July general grant cycle?

Special public art grant.
