Section 1: Organization Contact Information
Organization Name Futel
Alternative Names/Acronym
Employer ID Number (EIN)
Fiscal Sponsor Name (if applicable) PDX Hackerspace
Fiscal Sponsor EIN (if applicable) 83-1684562
Organization Address
7600 N INTERSTATE AVE
STE 857
PORTLAND, OR 97217
County where organization is located Multnomah
Website http://futel.net
Phone Number (503) 395-7468‬
Executive Director or Board Chair Information:
o Name Karl Anderson
o Title Director
o Email address operator@futel.net
Year established 2014

Futel East Portland Installation Constellation



Section 2: Organization Details
2.1 Organization mission and primary activities (500 characters)

Futel is a social service and art organization which refurbishes salvaged payphones and telephony equipment and rebuilds them into public installations. Our installations provide free calls, live human interaction, community engagement, service directories, and interactive audio art. We have been active for eight years, currently have nine public phones in Portland, and provided over 10,000 free calls in 2021.

2.2 What is your organization's primary focus? While your work may include several of the categories here, choose the one (or up to three) that BEST describes what you do.

Arts & Media
Housing Justice/Houselessness Issues

2.3 If you selected other, please elaborate (150 characters)

2.4 Counties where your organization provides services

Multnomah

2.5 Number of:

Board members 1
Number of FTE (full time equivalent) 0
Number of staff 0
Number of executive staff 0
Number of volunteers 10

Section 3: Organization Financials
3.1 What size is your operating budget?

$7000/yr

3.2 In what month does your fiscal year begin?

January

3.3 Organization financial details:
Budget for the Current Fiscal Year
Organization Revenues $7000
Organization Expenses $7000
Operating Surplus/Deficit $0
Actuals-to-Date for Current Fiscal Year
Organization Revenues $17
Organization Expenses $450
Operating Surplus/Deficit $432 deficit
Actuals for Last Completed Fiscal Year
Organization Revenues $9581
Organization Expenses $9680
Operating Surplus/Deficit $99 deficit

3.4 Briefly explain any operating deficits, significant surpluses, or changes in budget size in the information above. (1,500 characters)

Our budget varies from year to year since we are a grant driven organization. While there are usually several proposals in progress at any time, payments often bunch up on some years and skip others. While we attempt to maintain a steady pace of projects, exhibits, and campaigns, we are a small organization and don't always keep that momentum, so in years when we have not been able to successfully pursue funding, we lower our expenses and focus on maintaining our existing installations and services.

3.5 What is your organization’s financial outlook for the coming year? What resources, if any, do you have to support your needs (cash reserves, endowment, loans, federal/state relief funds, etc.)? (1,500 characters)

With successful grant awards from the Oregon Community Foundation, the Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods, and others, we will have funding for one or more programs and public installations. If grant funding is not available we will rely on a projected $1165 of crowdfunding and individual donations, as well as volunteer labor, to maintain our current network and research and prototype new projects.

Section 4: Grant Request
4.1 Provide a two-sentence description of your organization’s priorities, people served and how you would use OCF grant funds. This information will be made available to OCF donors.
(300 characters)
o Example: Over the next year, we will (top priorities), and for (#/how many)(population/community). OCF Funds will be used to .

Over the year we will grow our network of nine Portland installations by installing four more, increasing the communities we reach with free telephony, communication services, and participatory audio art. OCF funds will be used to pay workers, purchase hardware, and pay for services.

4.2 How much are you requesting from OCF?

$9000

4.3 Total expenses:

$9000

4.4 What funding has been received or pledged towards the total costs expenses? If none, enter
none or N/A:

none

4.5 Identify anticipated source(s) of remaining needed funds:

host in-kind support pending $900
installation labor in-kind pending $1280
engineering labor in-kind pending $1000

N/A

4.6 If your revenues, expenditures and/or proposed use of OCF funds would benefit from additional explanation, please tell us about it here (1,500 characters) (optional)

XXX this was not in the app and is reused in 5.8 additional blurb

The four new installations will be part of our existing network of nine installations in Portland. Funding to maintain and service those installations will come from crowdfunding and small donation income. Additional artistic projects aren't included in this OCF grant, but we expect funding from other sources will enable new projects, either during the OCF grant period or after. We hope that the expansion of our installations funded by the OCF grant, as well as the new relationships with organizations hosting the installations, will help to enable future projects.

Target Audience/Population Served
4.7 Which of the following populations is this request designed to specifically serve or benefit?
The majority of your program participants should identify with the descriptor you select.
(select all that apply)

• People living on low incomes
• People who are homeless/unsheltered

4.8 What counties will your work serve and/or take place in?

Multnomah

4.9 If your work includes strategies specifically designed to serve or benefit one or more Tribal reservations or communities, please tell us which community or communities will be served. (check all that apply)
4.10
Will your work primarily take place in and/or serve rural communities? (Yees/No)
no

4.11
Please describe the expertise or relationships your staff, leadership, board and/or decision makers have to serve the populations you selected above.

Karl Anderson has 7 years experience as director of Futel, delivering free communication services and assistance to under-resourced communities with walk-up kiosks and telephone support calls. Karl recently developed projects with the Village Coalition and Right To Dream Too.

Mathew Lippincott has 15 years experience in environmental monitoring and 12 years experience in sanitation policy and design. Mathew is a program and project designer for Futel, developing a sanitation program and supporting documentation and outreach.

Russell Senior has 13 years of experience as President of the Personal Telco Project. Personal Telco builds public access internet networks, bringing communication tools to Portland communities and recently providing services for C3PO villages. Russell has consulted with Futel to improve the technical and human aspects of Futel's communication infrastructure.

Partners for recent or ongoing Futel programs include Right To Dream Too, the Social Justice Action Center, and Sisters of the Road. The leadership and workers of these organizations are members of the houseless and low income communities they serve.

4.12 How do you involve the population you serve in the development and/or leadership of activities proposed for this application? (1,500 characters)

We will continue with a framework we've used before, by leveraging our partnerships. Futel's relationships with Sisters Of The Road and the Social Justice Action Center will help us grow our community integration. They will continue to provide guidance for the services and programs featured on our installations, and for future projects, they will run calls for proposals and other selections of contributors.

4.13 Does your organization collect demographic information on
race/ethnicity about your leadership (board and/or executive staff)? <select one>

no

4.14 Do you have racial/ethnic demographic data (or estimates) for the people you intend to serve through this application? <select one> [skip logic where table is provided for those who answer ‘yes’; those who answer ‘no’ continue to open-ended demographic question below]

no

4.15 Please tell us more about your responses to the demographic questions
above about race/ethnicity. What else do you feel is important for us to know, or if you don’t collect this information, why? (1,500 characters)

We don't collect this information. Our installations are accessible to the public unattended at all hours, and we don't require any identification from our users. We have found a large proportion of usage is by houseless and low-income people from informal conversations with users.

4.16 How is your organization advancing diversity, inclusion and equity, both internally within your organization and through your outreach and programs? (2,000 characters)

We advance inclusion and equity through our programs by recruiting artists and creators from the communities which are hosting our installations. We do this by partnering with organizations dedicated to strengthening those neighborhoods, including Open Signal, the Social Justice Action Center, and Sisters Of The Road.

We advance diversity and inclusion through our programs by centering our work on radical accessibility. By combining art and a well-understood public service, and by deliberately using implementations which can be accessed in public places, unattended, at all hours and days, we provide a unique entry point for interaction and offer opportunities to join participatory creative experiences.

Section 5: Grant Narrative
5.1 What type of support are you requesting?
capacity building?
project/program?

Capacity Building, Program & Capital Request Questions
5.2
Describe the proposed work including priority need(s), the communities this request aims to serve and the purpose of the funds. Include any challenges and opportunities you are working to address through this request, and if/how you plan to engage the target community in the effort.
For program or capital requests: describe how you are expanding existing
projects/programs or developing new projects/programs.
(2,000 characters)

We will expand our network of nine installations in Portland by adding four more:
Social Justice Action Center, SE 12th Ave
Sisters Of The Road, NW 6th Ave
Hedron Hackerspace, SE Bush St
Microcosm Publishing, N Williams Avenue

Our installations will provide essential communication services to their neighborhoods, as well as help to revive the social sphere of their public spaces.

The installations will be accessible to the public at all hours. On the practical side, they will provide free telephone calls, voicemail, and directories of services. On the creative side, they will provide opportunities to contribute to ongoing interactive audio projects, extending and changing the experience for other phone uses.

Through live operators and recorded messages, community members will be able to communicate with Futel workers, providing feedback and guiding feature improvements.

As part of the project, we will continue to maintain our existing network of installations.

All of these installations will be available for future creative projects featuring neighborhood members.

5.3 What are your plans for staffing this effort? If staff will be hired, how will you sustain the position after the grant period? (1,500 characters)

Staffing will use workers from previous and current Futel projects, with workloads consistent with previous years.

5.4 If your request involves partners, describe their roles and commitments. (1,500 characters)

Social Justice Action Center, Hedron Hackerspace, Sisters Of The Road, and Microcosm Publishing will host installations and provide services such as electricity, internet, and site upkeep. Their stewardship of the installations will position them to guide and direct future opportunities through them, such as creative projects which will provide compensation and expression for artists in the communities they work within.

5.5 Describe the community support for this request. This could include financial support, in-kind support, volunteer support, referrals, etc. (1,500 characters)

We have the support of 10 volunteers for many tasks including installation, maintenance, engineering, operations, project development, and other tasks.

Our nine current hosts maintain installation sites, allow public access, and provide $900 a year of in-kind support of services, supplies, and maintenance.

Staff at Sisters Of The Road and Social Justice Action Center will continue to contribute project development collaboration.

We are also supported by crowdfunding and individual donors.

5.6 What will success look like? What will be different for your organization and the
community/people you serve as a result? (1,500 characters)

There will be many facets to a successful project. We will be successful when we have increased our presence in Portland with several more installations, and when those installations see use by the communities they serve. We will judge the extent of that success by monitoring how the phones are used, without tracking identifiable usage. For example, if the phones see a large amount of daily outgoing calls, if the social service directories are accessed, and if the artistic projects see access and contributions, the installations will be successful.

More strategically, this project will be successful if it allows us to form closer relationships with our partners and their communities. We hope to see collaboration in project design, artistic inspiration, and feedback which leads to future joint projects and benefits for us, our partners, and the community members.

5.7 What is the timeline for implementation? (1,500 characters)

Sept 2022 - Dec 2022
We will purchase equipment and prepare and refurbish four kiosks.

Dec 2022
We will install the kiosks at Social Justice Action Center, Sisters Of The Road, Hedron Hackerspace, and Microcosm Publishing.

Mar 2023
We will update the programs and features on our installations according to usage patterns and feedback from our partners.

Jun 2023
We will update the programs and features on our installations according to usage patterns and feedback from our partners.

Sept 2023
All installations will remain operational and accessible through this date and beyond.

5.8 Is there anything else you'd like to tell us that would let us know OCF should prioritize your request? (1,500 characters) (optional)

Additional artistic projects aren't included in this OCF grant, but we expect funding from other sources will enable new projects, either during the OCF grant period or after. We hope that the expansion of our installations funded by the OCF grant, as well as the new relationships with organizations hosting the installations, will help to enable future projects.

Oral history and storytelling have been a natural direction for our projects, but we are most effective when we can take these concepts in a new media direction, combining audio content with public participation in unexpected ways. We have a proven track record of using grant funds to successfully implement this over several years, both solo projects and in collaboration with Open Signal, the Village Coalition, and other organizations.

Futel installations are tools like microphones and video cameras. They don’t have a single, predetermined function. They are the infrastructure for interaction and communication. This grant will give us another opportunity to use these tools in the support of people and communities.

Section 6: Attachments

Organization Finances:
o Current Operating Budget

budget.txt

o Most recent year-to-date profit and loss and balance sheet

budget-ytd.ods

o End of year financials for last fiscal year (audited, if available)

budget-2021.ods

Board Members: List your board members and their contact information

Karl Anderson
operator@futel.net
(503) 395-7468‬
POB 15153
Portland, OR 92714

Request Budget:

o For Capacity Building, Program, or Capital requests, attach a detailed budget that clearly demonstrates how OCF funds will be used.

request.txt

Fiscal Sponsor Documentation: If using a fiscal sponsor, include documentation of your relationship. (optional)

01-Fiscal_Sponsorshop_Acknowledgement
02-Determination-Lettter
