ask for $10K or less for results mid-june, and also because we have a small total op expenses
also there is some kind of yearly renewal application?

one year duration

types of project
Capacity Building
To help strengthen and stabilize an organization’s governance, operations, internal culture and/or community relationship
Project/Program
To develop, adapt or expand programming to respond to community priorities (Not intended to maintain an existing program as is)
Capital
To support small capital projects that will benefit priority populations

criteria
1. Does this application primarily serve one or
more 2022 Funding Priority populations to
advance equity, diversity and inclusion?
2. Is the proposed work responsive to a
community-defined need?
3. If the application addresses the needs of a
specific population, do staff, leadership,
board and/or decision makers have
appropriate cultural expertise or
relationships to serve that population?
4. Are people with lived experience
meaningfully leading or engaged in planning
and implementation?
5. Does this application reflect realistic goals
and solid planning?
6. Is the role and potential impact of funding
both clear and compelling?
7. For program, capacity building or capital
applications: is the request for a new project
or to expand/enhance an already
established program or area of work?



capacity building? project/program?
install X new public installations
- serve more varied portland neighborhoods
- keep our total installation steadily growing long term
maintain X continuing installations
- provide a robust and reliable public presence and service
expand programming
- support one or more new interactive audio projects to be experienced through installations
- enhance existing audio projects including staffed interactive programs
maintain continuing programming
- create, distribute media projects through installations to user community
- create, distribute print media projects for community and outreach

an installation includes a site, hardware and supplies for duration, and staffing to install and maintain
