0. Title

Working Title Sidewalk Voices

1. Fiscal agent (if different than the lead organization)

Umbrella

2. What is the community challenge or opportunity this project addresses? (*max. 1,000)

Economic forces threaten Black presence and ownership of public space. Futel, as an organization dedicated to interactive communication projects with radical accessibility, will partner with Sharita Towne, Open Signal, and the Alberta Abbey to provide an opportunity to learn about, experience, and grow Black presence at several locations throughout Portland.

The artistic and practical goals of this project are to address issues related to gentrification and urban development, link locations to history, provide a mouthpiece for local voices , and provide communication and networking services.

3. List partner organizations that will be a part of making the project happen.

Open Signal
Public installation hosting, artist facilitation, production and other services, and consulting.

Alberta Abbey
Public installation hosting.

Twilio
Donated telecommunications services.

TechSoup
Subsidized telecommunication services and equipment.

Personal Telco Project
Operational support and IT hardware.

Umbrella
Fiscal sponsor.

4. What will you do? Describe your project. (*max. 2,500)

Futel will install two or more new installations. These will use salvaged payphones and payphone enclosures and be accessible to the public at all hours.

The installations will feature new interactive audio programs, curated by local artist Sharita Towne, which will feature local personalities talking about issues important to local Black presence and culture, both economic and cultural.

Two installations will be installed on the exteriors of Open Signal and the Alberta Abbey. Up to two additional locations will be installed as they are identified.

All installations will also be usable as free working public telephones, and will provide other features common to Futel installations, including voicemail, communication services, and interactive audio art.

In addition to using our kiosks to site the project, Futel will provide development, operational support, and guidance to help Sharita Towne effectively use the medium of our installations. Open Signal will provide production, consulting, and other services.

Content developed for this project will also be available from Futel's existing public installations. Futel's growing network combines salvaged phone booths with internet voice transmission, allowing for the custom programming of push-button menus and the integration of art projects such as poetry and interactive games. We have maintained a telephone at Right2Dream Too since 2015, and we have six free public payphones in Portland and one in Ypsilanti, Michigan. The integration of Sidewalk Voices will augment Futel's existing interactive audio content.

5. Where will the project happen? Is there anything you want to share about this place/these places? (*max 1,000)

IMPORTANT: Begin with an address, and use this format: 1234 NE Main Street, Your Town, Zip (This is for mapping
purposes only; the address does not need to be the exact location. Enter multiple addresses if applicable.)

- Open Signal, 2766 NE Martin Luther King Jr Blvd, Portland, OR 97212
- Alberta Abbey, 126 NE Alberta St, Portland, OR 97211

6. How will communities of color be involved? Are there leadership roles for people of color? What about other historically marginalized communities? (*max. 1,500)

As the curator of Sidewalk Voices, which will be the primary focus of the two new installations, Sharita Towne will have artistic leadership over the project. In addition, Sidewalk Voices will involve and address the issues of communities of color.

7. How will the project make people feel more connected to each other and the place(s) where it will happen? (*max 1,500) 

In addition to supporting the neighbors of our installations with a basic communications utility, this project will provide a platform for dialogue and storytelling. We hope to help people join in the celebration of community histories

8. How do you think you'll be able to tell if the project had an impact? For instance, what would change? (*max 1,000) 

While Futel does not collect any personal information other than that supplied voluntarily by the users, we are able to collect data, allowing us to determine which locations and features are being utilized.

The most important indicator of the project's impact will be participation in its interactive features. This will include commentary and other interaction collected from the phones themselves, and the level and enthusiasm of the commitment by local people in providing content, for example interviews and oral history.

9. Each grant cycle, a number of shared themes emerge from community members' applications. Would you be interested in participating in a small group conversation with planners, decision-makers and other applicants? 

Yes.

10. Is there anything else you want to share? (*max 1,500)

Futel believes in democratizing communication, applying a hacker spirit and a mix of old and new technology. We are excited to have found a way to continue to integrate local community voices with our program.

Inspired by models of DIY publishing and distribution such as zines, file sharing, and ham radio, we want our network to be useful for both making calls and making art. Podcasting, oral history and storytelling are a natural direction for our projects. Our network already provides audio art with public interactions, including our podcast Wildcard Line, which features contributions from users of public Futel phones.

Not so long ago, the phone booth was a common feature of our social landscape. But as privately-owned smartphones have become ubiquitous, public payphones have disappeared, along with their functionality and the sense of a shared utility. For the most vulnerable in our community, a telephone can be a lifeline, providing access to services, job opportunities and contact with family and friends.

9. How can your project help people in the Southwest Corridor be ready to play a role in how this area will grow
and change in the coming years? (*max 1,500)
Write "N/A" in the box below if your project is not within or related to the target area. (You will not be able to successfully
submit your application with the box left blank.)

N/A


Budget

Category Metro funds Other funds Total

Professional and artistic (creative) services $
Equipment materials and supplies              $
Promotional costs and printing                $
Permitting and fees                           $
Indirect or overhead costs**                  $
Other (describe in budget narrative)          $
Total                                         $

Budget Narrative

Professional and artistic (creative) services

Metro funds
Sharita Towne stipend $5000
Futel creative stipend $5000
Creative contributor stipends x4 $400
Futel admin wages $20/hr x 50 $1000
Futel designer wages $20/hr x 10 $200
Futel community development director stipend $5000
Metro total $16600
Other Funds (volunteer)
Futel software development and ops $100/hr x 50 $5000
Grant writer $500
Other total $5500

Equipment materials and supplies
Payphones, enclosures, hardware for 4 installations $4000
IT equipment, hardware for 4 installations $1000
Metro total $5000

Promotional costs and printing
Flyers, booklets $1000
Metro total $1000

Permitting and fees
Permits for 4 installations $2000
Metro total $2000

Indirect overhead costs
Network and cloud computing services $1000
Metro total $1000

Other (describe in budget narrative)
Umbrella fiscal sponsorship $2900
Installation labor for 4 installations $20/hr x 64 $1280
Metro total $4180

Metro total $29780
Other total $5500
Total $35280

Document uploads
Documents Requested *
At least two letters of support by active partners

- Open Signal letter of support
- Open Signal permission to use property
- Alberta Abbey letter of support
- Alberta Abbey permission to use property
- Umbrella letter of support
- PTP letter of support
- Umbrella IRS determination letter
