Heinous Intellectual Property Crime Targets Futel
Nothing of Value Stolen
Except Perhaps The Attention Of Those Foolish Enough To Continue Reading

A wannabe maker celebrity in another country recently pretended to launch a vaporware project that rips off Futel. This doesn’t really affect anything, and in fact it feels refreshing after the more threatening attention from morons on the internet of the past couple years. It is perhaps interesting as an example of the kind of low energy grifts we all need to filter out every day.There is an attempted influncer of the type familiar to the maker and hacker communities. There is a blog with pictures of a well-stocked workshop and descriptions of impressive projects, but no demonstrations. The visible output is logos, mission statements, and other self-promotion. There is a YouTube channel, a TED talk, and a human interest story on a local television program. There are speeches about education and “giving back,” but nothing of substance is shared, only the assertion that the influencer’s work should be inspiring.In this case, the fake project is a near exact copy of Futel. It even includes the opportunity to apologize! But there isn’t any substance behind the hype. We are shown stock photos of payphones accompanied by a voiceover describing imminent achievements. We can see the single instance of actual tangible work, presented on a clean workbench — a payphone with some colored lights in the enclosure and a tablet ziptied to the front.The angle is unclear and the strategy doesn’t make any sense. All the hype is vapid, but it doesn’t take any less time to produce because of it. The most banal part of the project is stolen, the easy part, the idea. The boring part, the marketing, still has to be done. What is the reward? YouTube and Google ad income which is a fraction of a real wage, and a puff piece TV appearance? And this can’t be leveraged into a career as a true influencer, media host, or even role model, because there aren’t any accomplishments to show. Our villain isn’t able to put in the actual work which could grow a real project, otherwise it would have been done and showed off already. That’s actual content, the kind of thing that could be monetized successfully.That is why none of this really matters. This kind of person is never going anywhere. Think about actual accomplished maker media personalities, like Adam Savage or Jeri Ellsworth. They are always describing their projects, not just their successes, but their failures, and the cheats and shortcuts where they fake it until everything can come together. They show us how they do things, they don’t just talk about how great their ideas are.It is annoying that someone feels comfortable lifting our schtick. Are we that obscure?  The only really infuriating part is the attempt to subvert the relationships between Futel and other creators, both partnerships and homages, by lumping everything together and claiming it. We are always careful to promote and support our collaborators and inspirations, and publicity is often the only thing we can give them. Most egregiously, to watch some clown attempt to claim any aspect of the Apology Line as their own work because they learned about it from us causes anger. Allan Bridge actually created something, you will find better success by acknowledging his work than by looking like a cheap imitator. Hey, Marissa Bridge recently released a podcast about Allan Bridge and the Apology Line, go support her.But the confusing part is why anyone would feel the need to imitate us at all. Futel is a very open organization. Our code and operations are visible. So are our expenses, planning, project ideas, and grant proposals, successful and unsuccessful. It’s all linked from our website. You don’t have to steal our ideas, we are giving them away. When we started out we put everything in public repositories because it was easier to work that way. We didn’t expect anybody to notice, and didn’t imagine that anybody else would think it was fun to run a phone company, but if you want to do it yourself, you don’t even have to build your own, we will give you ours. We will work for you. You can run it for real! Your name will be at the top of the masthead and you can pay yourself whatever you want. Call us today! Dial 0 from any Futel phone!