1. ELIGIBILITY

Applicant Organization’s Nonprofit Status (choose one)
    • We are fiscally sponsored by a 501c3 nonprofit organization (Note: you will be required to submit a copy of your fiscal sponsorship agreement)
        ◦ Name of fiscal sponsor organization: PDX Hackerspace
        ◦ Fiscal sponsor’s federal tax ID number: 83-1684562
        ◦ Primary contact name: Jon Hannis
        ◦ Primary contact phone: (503) 560-3551
        ◦ Primary contact email: info@pdxhs.org

Does your project take place in the SE Uplift District Coalition Area?
    • Yes


    2. APPLICANT INFORMATION

Applicant Organization/Group
Futel, fiscally sponsored by PDX Hackerspace

Applicant Organization/Group Mailing Address (If you are fiscally sponsored, this should be your fiscal sponsor’s mailing address.)
Street or PO Box: 7600 N INTERSTATE AVE STE 857
City: PORTLAND
State: OR
Zip: 97217

Project Title: Clinton and Foster-Powell Futel Telephones

Requested Funding Amount $2764

Primary Project Coordinator
Name: Karl Anderson
Primary Project Coordinator’s Title: Director
Phone: 503 395 7468
Email: operator@futel.net

3. PROJECT NARRATIVE

Your narrative should make a clear case for how the project will achieve one or more of the following grant program goals: Increase the number and diversity of people who are engaged in improving the broader community; Strengthen the community’s capacity to create social change by building leadership, identity, skills, or relationships; Increase community impact on public decisions and community life.

2. Please provide a very brief overview of what your project will do, who it will involve, and what you aim to accomplish. Please use full sentences. (75 words or less)

The project will enhance community-oriented public space in the Clinton and Foster-Powell neighborhoods by repurposing public telephones. We will install two payphones and enclosures, accessible from public sidewalks. The phones will provide free telephone calls, interactive audio art, directories of public services, interesting numbers to call, and live operator assistance. We will also maintain three existing public phones in the Buckman and Woodstock neighborhoods.

3. Please provide a more detailed description of your project. List your core goals. Describe the activities you will undertake to meet your goals. Tell us what you expect to accomplish by undertaking this project. (300 words or less)

Each installation will include a payphone on a pedestal, accessible from the sidewalk. The installations will be operational at all hours from February through December 2024, with other funding supporting them in 2025 and later. The new installations will be installed at SE Clinton St at 27th Ave, and at SE 67th Ave at Pardee St-Long St Alley.  Existing installations in SE Uplift neighborhoods are located at SE Taylor St at 23rd Ave, SE Cesar Chavez Blvd at Steele St, and SE Woodstock Blvd at 40th Ave.

Our project has two core goals. We will increase access to services, and we will strengthen pedestrian equity and involvement in the public space of the neighborhoods they are installed in. Our installations do this by providing radically accessible, interactive audio kiosks which combines basic human services with participatory creative programs.

We will procure, refurbish, assemble, install, and maintain two pedestal-mounted telephones and enclosures. We will procure, provision, and install the IT equipment needed for the installations, and provision and operate our VOIP servers to provide service for them. We will purchase and distribute telephony services from vendors.

We expect to see usage similar to recent years. In 2022, our installations provided an average of over 1,000 outgoing calls each, and had a wide range of features accessed.

3. How does your project fit with SE Uplift’s mission? SE Uplift collaborates to build informed, inclusive, and participatory neighborhoods that support our social and ecological well-being. (200 words or less)

While our installations will provide essential services to people who visit them from the sidewalk, they will not be solely utilitarian. They will also involve participants in two-way conversations, acting as accessible creative and communication tools, and they will improve the aesthetic environments of their neighborhoods. They will also improve pedestrian livibility and the face to face social environments where they are installed.

The installations will support the goals of the Community Small Grants program by engaging a diverse group of people in several ongoing interactive creative projects. As with our previous and current installations, these projects will bring in participants and collaborators who would otherwise be hard to reach among more established artistic programs.


5. What is your group’s capacity to complete the project? Include the qualifications of those who would carry out this project, and how they reflect the community you hope to engage. (300 words or less)

We have been building, installing, and operating our payphone installations since 2014, and currently maintain and operate eleven public installations in Portland. We also provide telephone services to Right To Dream Too in the Rose Quarter and the Social Justice Action Center in the Buckman neighborhood. In 2022 we facilitated over 10,800 outgoing calls from our phones.

We have developed and deployed interactive audio projects accessed through our installations since the project began. In 2022 we received over 100 contributions to our creative projects through our installations, and thousands of other interactions with our creative projects.

Futel workers and volunteers include:

Karl Anderson: Director
Jason Plumb: Software engineering, installation labor, program and creative development
Elijah St Clair: Software engineering, installation labor, program and creative development
Mathew Lippincott: program and creative development
Russell Senior: Software engineering

6. Optional: Please list any partners that would help you implement your project. Describe their anticipated role and if they are projected or confirmed. 

Chris Contolini will host the new installations. Confirmed.

Personal Telco Project will provide operational support and IT hardware. Confirmed.

7. Who will participate in your project activities? For example: Describe the target audience(s) your project will engage. Where are they located? How they will be involved as active participants? Have they been involved in the design of your project? How many people do you expect to participate in your activities? Be specific about how your project will engage historically underrepresented or underserved communities such as people of color, immigrants and refugees, people with disabilities, LGBTQ+ people, renters, low-income people. (300 words or less)

Our project is oriented towards anyone who walks down the sidewalk, and the radical accessibility of the installations will allow us to engage an extremely varied audience. Participants will be able to walk up and use our installations from the sidewalk without money or a smartphone. By combining art and a well-understood public service, we provide a unique entry point for interaction and communication, and offer opportunities to join participatory creative experiences.

While we don't collect demographic information or other identification from participants, our conversations have been with many kinds of people. People experiencing houselessness are strongly represented.


8. What is your plan to promote your project and recruit participants? Include how you will build awareness of your project in the community and the outreach methods you will use to reach your target audience. (300 words r less)

As part of the Futel project, our project will benefit from an existing media presence, including our website, blog, yearly print publication, regular audio publications, and various social media accounts. We will continue with the outreach work which started since the Futel project began in 2014. Previous outlets which have reported on Futel include the Oregonian, OPB, the Bee, NPR Morning Edition, the Willamette Week, and KOIN 6. Previous organizations which have collaborated on project development and operations include Open Signal and Sisters Of The Road. We distribute our yearly publication through Microcosm Publishing.

The project will also be promoted through flyers and posters on the eleven current Futel installations in Portland. Our installations, being prominently available in public spaces, have always gained adoption and interaction through observation and word of mouth, and we expect good participants from these locations.

How will your project increase community safety and resilience? Describe any relief or logistical support efforts that will address the community’s capacity to recover, overcome, and resist hardships? Will steps toward increased safety be reached during or after the project? (200 words or less)

Our installations provide essential services: telephone calls, voicemail, directories of services, and operator assistance. They have been used and valued in the communities where they are installed. They also increase community safety and cohesion by providing a neighborhood presence, a pedestrian oriented urban amenity.


4. TIMELINE

Please provide a simple timeline that outlines the steps you will take to accomplish your goals and by when. Include your expected start and completion dates, and all major project milestones. 

January 1 - December 31 2024: Existing installations are operational and accessible to the public at all hours.
January 1 - January 14 2024: Build new installations and supporting IT hardware.
January 15 - January 31 2024: Deploy new installations.
February 1 - December 31 2024: New installations are operational and accessible to the public at all hours.
