Primary Artistic Discipline
Social Practice

Primary Request Category
Career Development
Operating Expenses

Working Title of your proposed Project or Activity (optional):

Futel Operations 2023-2024

Grant Request Amount:
What funding level are you applying for? Choose one:

    $4,000

Remember: A smaller grant request will have a more streamlined and simple application. A larger request amount requires more information and supplemental materials.

Grant Request Timeframe:
What is the Start Date?
When did or does planning begin for the proposed work or activity?

Jan 1 2023

What is the End Date?
When do you anticipate all related work to be complete?

June 30 2024

When do you anticipate all related work to be complete?

The long-running platform has been operational since 2014, and I expect it to continue for several years after 2024, spinning off related art and communication projects.

June 30 2024

Grant Application Questions:

1. Tell us about your project or activity.
Provide as much detail and information as you can, including the content/story/themes, the technique/approach, and the intended outcomes. Up to 1,200 characters including spaces.

This grant will support Futel, a network of public installations built in payphones. This grant-funded project has been active since 2014 and combines free public telecommunication services with interactive audio art. In 2021, it provided over 27,000 interactions and over 10,900 outgoing calls.

The grant will fully fund the operation of eight existing public installations in Portland for one year, including maintenance, repair, and services, enabling all existing artistic and service features. All installations will be publicly accessible at all hours for the duration of the grant project.

The grant will also let me devote time to practical and creative skill development. The grant will fund 80 hours devoted to learning skills which will expand the programs that the Futel project can implement, including real time multi-user interaction through Futel installations and the telephone system, and computer assisted audio manipulation. The grant will fund 80 hours devoted to designing and prototyping creative projects involving interactive audio and communication between Futel users and operators, which will expand the creative depth of the Futel project. 


Does your request involve other artists, admin support, staff or board, community groups, vendors, service providers, etc?

    Yes

2. Who is involved, what are they doing as part of this activity, and why did you select them?
Up to 1,000 characters including spaces.

Creative and staff support:
Karl Anderson: Director, software engineering, maintenance labor, program and creative development
Jason Plumb: Software engineering, maintenance labor, program and creative development
Elijah St Clair: Software engineering, maintenance labor
Russell Senior: Software engineering
Mathew Lippincott: Graphic design, hardware engineering, program development

These workers all have years of involvement with the Futel project, both as volunteers and in grant-supported paid work. They are motivated by sharing the Futel project's goals of providing radically accessible communication services and by their own practices combining technology and art.

Service providers:
Digital Ocean: Cloud computing services to run the servers behind Futel
Twilio: Telecommunication and computing services to implement Futel features
VOIP.ms, BulkVS: Telecommunication services to implement Futel features

These service providers are all currently used for the Futel project.

3. How does this request impact you and move your artistic work forward?
Up to 1,000 characters including spaces.

The operational funding of the existing Futel phones will allow me to build on the ongoing artistic project, and seek new grants and projects, during and after the grant period.

The personal development funding will let me design and prototype new creative programs, with the practical development increasing my ability to use communication technology for projects, and the artistic development giving me time to design innovative new programs. New programs will include several of:
- A framework for the creation of participatory location-specific oral history exhibits, where the user can hear discussion and contribute to a growing conversation about Dawson Park
- An interactive program where the user is guided through the interpretation of audio sequences, and the production of randomness, without any language being used
- An audio project where users use Futel phones and their personal phones to communicate, with their voices replaced by computer generated speech and other modifications

4. Will you engage with the public in the Portland tri-county area in a presentation or activity as part of this proposal?
    Yes

If yes, what is the anticipated venue name and address with zipcode for the public involvement? If digital engagement, what are your platforms for reaching tri-county residents?
Up to 400 characters including spaces.

Sidewalk-accessible locations:
SE Taylor E of 23rd, 97214
NE Ainsworth W of 8th Ave-9th Ave Alley, 97211
NE Killingsworth E of 13th, 92711
NE 8th Ave S of Prescott, 97211
N Central St between Tyler and Allegheny, 97203
N Saratoga St W of Denver, 97217
SE Cesar Chavez Blvd S of Steele, 97202
Microcosm Publishing, N Williams Ave S of NE Graham St, 97227

Is this location ADA-Accessible?

    Yes

$3,000 Request Level & Above:

5. Who is the audience or participants for the public engagement, and what is your promotion, marketing, outreach, or distribution plan?
Up to 1,000 characters including spaces.

The potential audience of the work is anyone walking down the sidewalk, as well as people who seek out our installations after learning about them from media coverage, our own outreach, or organic word of mouth. Our audience comes from a very diverse population that most creative projects would have difficulty in reaching. The radical accessibility of our project has led to a large proportion of usage and interactions from people experiencing houselessness.

Promotion and outreach will include:
- The Futel website, blog, and social media
- "Party Line", a printed booklet about Futel's activities
- "Wildcard Line", a participatory audio work with contributions from users of Futel phones
- Interviews and articles for media covering public art, the creative use of technology, or innovative social service, including "Oregon Arts Watch", "Think Out Loud", and "2600"
- Presentations at arts and technology meetups and conferences including "Teardown", "Hardware Happy Hour", and "ftp://con"

How many people do you estimate it will reach?

1000

$4,000 Request Level & Above:

6. Please describe the overall expected timeline for your proposal between your start and end dates, including estimated timeframes for development, execution, promotion, and any final presentations.
Up to 1,000 characters including spaces.

Jan 1 2023 through Jun 30 2024: Project planning and idea generation, testing.
Jul 1 2023 through Jun 30 2024: Eight public Futel phone installations continue to be operational in Portland.
Jul 1 2023 through Jun 30 2024: Work applied to personal development. 80 hours devoted to learning technical skills to enable future Futel projects. 80 hours spent designing and prototyping creative projects using Futel payphones and equipment.

7. What accessibility considerations are you making to support your audience or participants?

This could be physical (such as ASL, closed-captioning, CART, etc.) financial (such as scholarships, subsidized tickets, etc.) or other considerations. Up to 500 characters including spaces.

All locations are accessible for free from public sidewalks and usable by users who require mobility devices.

Closing Statement:
What else would you like the Community Reviewers to know in support of your grant request?
Up to 1,000 characters including spaces.

Increasing technology skills, and developing new demo programs, will be an ability multiplier for future projects. Futel is probably the most creative user of several communication platforms, including the open source Asterisk server. We will see greater potential by working more with Twilio, a cloud platform which we began using after a 2018 Twilio Impact Access grant.

Funding the existing sites and services for the year will make resources available for the ongoing project. Futel has been successful in part because it has kept a platform and audience available for prototyping and experimentation, as well as a practical attraction, free telephone calls, to draw people in. We will leverage this base to enable projects supported by Metro, Oregon Community Foundation, and other organizations.

Storytelling has been a natural direction for our projects, and we are effective when we can take it in a new media direction, combining audio content with public participation in unexpected ways.
